This movie is an exploration of nihilism, right?
The concept of meaninglessness, of there is no objective truth,
there is no objective morality, that we're all just specks floating out in space.
If nothing we do matters, then the only thing that matters is what we do.
I think we're more alike than we're different, and there's more that unites us and separates us,
but we forget that because, honestly, we may know some of what's going on, but none of us know.
None of us have any idea what the heck is going on.
And how crucial it is to be kind.
Kindness and optimism, they're not the tools of the ignorant or the naive or the stupid
who don't know what's going on in the world.
This is drinking from the fire hose for two hours.
And 15 minutes.
And 15 minutes, and it is sublime.
There's a very beautiful side to nihilism as well,
which is that we are the masters of our own fates, and we decide what's right and wrong,
and we decide, you know, what our actions are going to mean.
Welcome to Cinema Therapy.
I'm Alan Seawright, professional filmmaker who needs therapy, and that is...
Jonathan Decker, licensed therapist who loves movies.
What are we doing? What's going on?
Alan Seawright I would like you to react to all the things.
Jonathan Decker Everything?
Alan Seawright Uh-huh. In all of the places.
Jonathan Decker At one single-lingual time.
Single.
Alan Seawright One single-lingual time.
Jonathan Decker Everything everywhere all at once.
I take it because we have bagels as guests.
Alan Seawright Our guests are the everything bagel.
I put everything on a bagel and I gave it to you.
Jonathan Decker I love it.
This is my new favorite movie, and I'm not saying that just...
Alan Seawright This is not recency bias.
Jonathan Decker No, this is... I have a very thorough vetting process and my last favorite,
310 to Yuma, was there for like 12 years.
Alan Seawright Oh, a long, long time.
Jonathan Decker Yeah. So that's not faint praise.
This has everything I could ever want in a movie.
Alan Seawright And it has it everywhere.
Jonathan Decker It has family reconciliation.
It has couples working through their issues.
It's got existential crises. It's got...
Alan Seawright A multiverse?
Jonathan Decker A multiverse. It's got martial arts.
It's got laughs. It's got tears. It's got everything. Like, it's fantastic.
Alan Seawright It is one of the best films ever made. Certainly the best film of this year.
Jonathan Decker Yeah.
Alan Seawright Not even close.
Jonathan Decker Michelle Yeoh is a...
She and her husband run a laundromat. She is an Asian immigrant.
She's got a daughter that are not getting along so great.
Her father's coming to town for his birthday.
He's an old school traditionalist and her daughter is more progressive.
And there's just a lot of family drama and a lot of work stress and a lot of tax stress.
And then suddenly she gets thrown into the fact that,
oh, there's millions of you in many universes and you have the ability,
if you choose, to visit those universes or to take those skills upon yourself.
Alan Seawright And by being a failure, you have the most power.
Jonathan Decker You're capable of anything because you're so bad at everything.
Alan Seawright It's... everything. This movie is everything.
Here we go. We're just going to watch some stuff and we're going to react.
And that's all. We're just going to go. Here we go.
Michelle Yeoh You have to try and eat healthier.
You are getting fat.
Jonathan Decker She had some more profound personal stuff to say,
and then she backed off.
Alan Seawright Yeah. This is...
as a person who spent a good chunk of my time growing up in China and other Asian countries,
I have Asian aunties and that's how they said they love me.
Jonathan Decker Your daughter's struggling with a lack of approval
or just the lack of unconditional love, really.
Alan Seawright I just... this one little scene,
it's like a minute and a half. Most of it doesn't even have dialogue.
And it tells you everything you need to know about what this movie is.
Michelle Yeoh Filmmaking!
We just watched so much story happen, and it was like a couple of simple shots
and the juxtaposition of those shots and then a subtitle and then a super title,
which is what it's called when you put a title up higher like that.
Jonathan Decker Yeah.
Alan Seawright And a big giant, the world's largest music sting ever.
Alan Seawright And it tells you everything,
not just because it says everything, it tells you everything you need to know about this movie,
what this movie is, who it's about, what their struggles are.
Jonathan Decker This feels like a good place to make my case for movies as the highest art form.
And very often we don't see them as such because so few movies like fail
to take advantage of the potential and they just kind of poop out content like,
here, here's a thing for you to enjoy.
But film, if you think about all the other art forms, right?
If you think about, OK, stage acting and the power of the spoken word,
the power of the written word, right?
So you have screenwriting, you have the acting, you have the wardrobe,
you have the production design, you have music.
If you're a musical person or you're moved by music, it's there, right?
You have dancing, you have martial arts, you have comedic timing,
and you have, through editing, something that you can't get anywhere else, which is editing.
Alan Seawright Yeah, you can't go from one thing to a completely other thing
and juxtapose those two in any other form of media.
Novels almost kind of sort of, but not really.
Jonathan Decker All the other art forms coalesce and come together in cinema.
Alan Seawright Movies are everything.
Come on, it's right there.
Jonathan Decker This is why it's cinema therapy, because it's the best.
Alan Seawright It's so good. Also, television and video games.
But we're not talking about those right now. It's just cinema therapy. Here we go.
My dear Evelyn, I know you. With every passing moment,
you feel you might have missed your chance to make something of your life.
I'm here to tell you, every rejection, every disappointment has led you here.
And to this moment, don't let anything distract you from it.
That just speaks to my soul.
Do you think this is funny?
Jonathan Decker Jamie Lee Curtis.
So, first of all, K. Hoi Kwan, who we know growing up in the 80s from The Goonies and
Templewoods. Yeah, short round.
Jonathan Decker But then he disappears for decades.
Alan Seawright Yeah.
Jonathan Decker And I learned in the making of this film,
it's because there weren't roles for him.
Alan Seawright Yeah, he just wanted to do more than he was getting,
you know, cast for. I mean, there were very few roles to begin with and they were all
things that he didn't want to play.
Jonathan Decker And so he retired. He didn't do acting for decades.
He did some stunt coordination, is what I understand.
Alan Seawright And second unit directing and stuff.
Jonathan Decker Yeah, yeah. And then and then he saw
a crazy rich Asians and realized he wanted to get back in the game because
there are some good roles there. And I'm watching this film and it is a revelation.
Alan Seawright He look, Michelle Yeoh, rightly, is getting praised out the wazoo for this.
Because her performance is dynamite and he walks away with every single scene.
He is so damn good as the different versions of Waymond.
Jonathan Decker Yeah.
Alan Seawright And just what he has to do as each different version of Waymond, like
each one has pathos, but in a different way. And it's just like…
Jonathan Decker It's a different Waymond.
Alan Seawright It is mind blowing how good this performance.
Jonathan Decker Well, he's funny and then he's dramatic and then he kicks ass.
Alan Seawright And he's a complete wiener.
Michelle Yeoh Ah! What's happening in my head?
Jonathan Decker Yeah.
Alan Seawright And he's like, but he's just sweet. And then he's like the world's coolest man.
Alan Seawright At one point. And it's just like, oh my gosh.
Jonathan Decker And I just feel like we were robbed of decades of amazing work.
And it makes me very sad.
Alan Seawright Yeah, for sure.
Jonathan Decker That the rules weren't there.
And it sounds like a lot of it was American rules. They didn't have
for Asian men stuff he wanted to do.
Alan Seawright Which is a crime. Hopefully,
we get 30 years of absolutely unbelievable work from him.
Jonathan Decker Yeah.
Alan Seawright Welcome back to show business.
Michelle Yeoh What is that?
Michelle Yeoh I got bored one day.
And I put everything on a bagel.
Everything. All my hopes and dreams, my old report cards,
every breed of dog, every last personal ad on Craigslist.
Sesame, poppy seed, salt.
And it collapsed in on itself.
Because you see, when you really put everything on a bagel, it becomes this.
Come on, come on, come on. The truth.
Yes. What is the truth?
Michelle Yeoh Nothing
matters.
Alan Seawright Oh, Joy,
you don't believe that?
Michelle Yeoh Feels nice, doesn't it?
Alan Seawright If nothing matters, then all the pain and guilt you feel
from making nothing of your life goes away.
Michelle Yeoh Sucked into
a bagel.
Alan Seawright So amazing.
F***ing cinema! Come on!
That was the objectively silliest thing that has ever happened.
Alan Seawright And it's so emotionally impactful and she's crying while singing
Sucked into a bagel. And so am I.
I love this movie. I love this movie.
Alan Seawright So do I. I'm loving it a bit more calmly over here.
Alan Seawright I cannot love things calmly.
I must love things ferociously.
What did he say? This movie is an exploration of nihilism. The concept of meaninglessness,
there is no objective truth, there is no objective morality, that we're all just
specks floating out in space.
You're the one holding the speck.
I'm the one holding the speck.
Alan Seawright That none of it was created. There's no divine purpose.
There's no. And that's where the daughter as Jobu Tupaki has landed.
Not only is everything meaningless.
This is Juju Tupaka.
Jobu Tupaki.
You're just making up the sounds.
Alan Seawright But we don't have any sort of moral obligation to one another.
Alan Seawright Right.
Alan Seawright There's no impetus to do right because there's no divine reward.
Like, so she's just going to wreak havoc and destroy.
Alan Seawright She's going to put everything on the bagel.
Alan Seawright Yeah, I mean.
Alan Seawright All universes, all of everything.
Alan Seawright She's a lot like Heath Ledger's Joker. She's an agent of chaos.
Alan Seawright Yeah.
Alan Seawright Except for she has far more power than Heath Ledger's Joker.
Alan Seawright Much, much more frightening.
Alan Seawright So she wreaks much more chaos is the scene.
Oh, man, the scene is probably my favorite movie scene now.
Alan Seawright Of any film ever?
Alan Seawright Yeah, no, it speaks to me.
Alan Seawright Also, the answer to is it possible for any
human to be cooler than Tony Leung?
Alan Seawright Maybe.
Alan Seawright Can we just stop fighting?
Alan Seawright He also plays this.
Alan Seawright So much range.
Alan Seawright I know you're all fighting because you're scared and confused.
Alan Seawright I'm confused too.
Alan Seawright All day.
Alan Seawright I don't know what the heck is going on.
Alan Seawright I feel that sometimes.
Alan Seawright But somehow it feels like it's all my fault.
Alan Seawright Definitely felt that.
Alan Seawright Definitely feel that.
Alan Seawright The only thing I do know is that we have to be kind.
Alan Seawright Please be kind, especially when we don't know what's going on.
Alan Seawright This is such a powerful line.
Alan Seawright And then it comes.
Alan Seawright Did we. Oh, did we crack him?
Alan Seawright Yeah, you did.
Alan Seawright Hey, that's what I was going for.
I'm obviously going to be if I think about this for two seconds, I'm going to be weeping openly.
Alan Seawright My life mission inherited from my mother at
large, the idea of, you know, we need to be kind, especially when we don't know what's
going on. And I, you know, I believe that the principles of therapy will help on a societal
level, not just in our homes. There's so much whatever side of the political or other aisle
you're on, there's misinformation, there's people pulling strings, there's confusion,
and there's finger pointing. And I think we're more alike than we're different. And there's
more that unites us and separates us. But we forget that because honestly, we may know some
of what's going on, but none of us none of us have any idea what the heck is going on
and how crucial it is to be kind. I am not an optimist because I'm naive and I'm not an
optimist because I'm clueless. Like, yeah, I've had a very blessed, privileged life. I came from
a very happy family. But I've had, as an adult, I've had some hard losses and some hard hits.
And then a lot of just the people that I work with, the things that I sit with every day,
the sheer amount of darkness and ugliness. And there are days when I just come home and cry,
especially when I deal with stuff that has to do with kids and what kids have been through.
It just, and I have a very cynical side that you don't see a lot on the show and that people
don't see a lot in life. I have a dark, frankly didn't exist when we were roommates. No, it didn't.
It was, it was eye-opening to get to know you later as an adult and be like, oh, some went down.
I've come to the brink of hopelessness a lot of times. Yeah. And so I love the line of,
of this is how I fight.
That kindness and optimism, they're not the tools of the ignorant or the naive or the stupid who
don't know what's going on in the world. That, that this character, he, he presents as sunny
and optimistic. And so his wife thinks that he's a dope. Yeah. But he knows what's going on. But
this is how he chooses to fight. And I, I love Evelyn having that shift that through the different
universes, whether he's this cool Tony Leung, like in the mood for love style, like smoking a cigarette
version or this kind of dopey, he's wearing a, he's wearing a fanny pack, you know, and that she,
she's like, well, we've got to, you can't back down from the challenges of life. And she always
thought that he was, and he was just taking a different angle at him. Like, it's just so awesome.
A, absolutely nailed it. B, they do it in the most hilarious, but also badass way. She like
fights her way through a, you know, a rank of bad guys up the stairs, and she's like, oh,
oh, you know, a rank of bad guys up the stairs using kindness fighting. Like she's just fixing
all their problems using like weird ass kung fu. Well, there's one guy that she fixes his back,
right? And then there's another guy. Doesn't she give someone something to eat or something
like that? I don't remember. I have to watch it again. Oh man. But it's, it's, that's, it's
everything. There's too many things. I can't remember all the things that she does. Well,
she weighs into battle and her husband, who has been begging them to stop fighting, asks her to
stop and she says, okay, I'm going to fight how you fight. I'm going to fight how you fight. And
then she's like, well, and then everyone's just like happily on the stairs or like whatever.
We are so excited to announce that we are launching a Patreon. So if you want to support
what we're doing here to keep us making the show, and you want some extra cinema therapy in your
life, like extended cuts of episodes, exclusive discord server access, exciting behind the scenes
and bloopers, extra crying with Alan and a whole lot more. I apologize. I used to do car commercials.
Go check out our Patreon at patreon.com forward slash cinema therapy. Your support helps us keep
making the show and you get to see me cry more and feel less alone in an infinite uncaring universe.
That's good. Great. Mom, just stop.
You're good for you. You're figuring your out. That's great. I'm really, really happy for you.
She owned that her daughter is in a lesbian relationship and that she loves her and that
she loves her partner. I'm tired. To the grandfather. I don't want to hurt anymore.
And for some reason for her, it's too late. It just hurts the both of us.
Michelle Yeoh's reaction there. So let's just go our separate ways, okay? Good acting.
Just let me go.
So this version of the daughter, obviously not a supervillain, but just wants to sink into the
abyss. Yeah. And the supervillain version wants the same thing. But for everything. Yeah. For her
and everything else stop existing. And so does the rock version, which I loved so much. The rocks.
It's nice here. They have a whole dialogue scene as rocks with just subtitles in it.
It's incredible. What's funny and amazing is this is still very moving, even though it's
objectively silly. There are miracles happening in this film, miracles of filmmaking, things that
should not work. Wait. You are getting fat. And you never call me, even though we have a family
plan. What? And it's free. You only visit when you need something. You got a tattoo and I don't care
if it's supposed to represent our family. You know I hate tattoos and of all the places I could be,
why would I want to be here with you? Yes, you're right. That doesn't make sense. Evelyn.
Let her finish.
Maybe it's like you said. Maybe there is something out there. Some new discovery
that will make us feel like even small pieces of s**t. The nihilism, you know, we. Something that
explains why. Our insignificant specs. You still weren't looking for me through all of this noise.
And why? No matter what, I still want to be here with you.
I will always. Always. Want to be here with you.
Want to be here with you. So what? You're just going to ignore everything else? You could be anything, anywhere.
You might not go somewhere where your. Where your daughter is more than just.
This. Here all we get are a few
specks of time where any of this actually makes any sense. Then I will cherish these few specks of time.
That's the secret. Yeah. If nothing matters, then everything matters.
You know, speaking of laughter through tears, I love the acting choice of the daughter to
to laugh as she's crying to her mom. And it's not especially happy, but the hot dog fingers. Oh gosh.
And then the whole Ratatouille like spoof like is so awesome.
Yeah. Grandpa wrapping his head around his granddaughter, dating a girl.
What did he say? She goes after her cinema, man. Come on. You cannot do this with anything else.
Certainly shouldn't be doing that with anything else. In one universe, her enemy is her lover, the
Rekka Kuti. Like it's all so. It's amazing to me. The bonkers stuff this movie gets away with.
None of it should work. It's just so amazing. It's just so amazing. It's just so amazing.
It's amazing to me. The bonkers stuff this movie gets away with. None of it should work.
And all of it is perfect. Yeah.
There was an episode of of Angel, the TV series where they explore a similar theme.
There it is. Powerful effect in the world. Close ups.
So awkward. That's Sophie right there. But we're feeling happiness.
Nothing matters.
You know, I'm, I have a great interest in understanding how other people think,
how they see the world. Sure. It's of great value to me as a therapist,
not to impose my worldview on other people, but to understand where they're coming from
and then help them within that framework. And so I was looking into nihilism.
And in that episode of Angel, they say that if nothing we do matters, then the only thing
that matters is what we do, right? That if there's no cosmic purpose, if there's no eternal reward or
payout, then we're not, you don't help people for an eternal reward. You help people because
they're going to be gone and you're going to be gone. And you've got one shot to make a
difference in their lives. There's only this one chance to do anything good.
Yeah. There's a very beautiful side to nihilism as well, which is that we are,
we are the masters of our own fates and we decide what's right and wrong. And we decide,
you know, what our actions are going to mean. The bar keeps getting raised on this,
but this is the most movie ever in a movie. Yeah. This is drinking from the firehose.
Yeah. For two hours. And 15 minutes. And 15 minutes. And it is sublime.
It's a real sweet spot because it is simultaneously extremely intelligent and extremely dumb.
And absolutely beautiful and like full of pathos.
Very moving. And then at the same time, it feeds your-
Unbelievably silly.
And I just need to see some ass get kicked, you know, like it's all just in there.
This is so much movie. I have a feeling we could do several more episodes. First one that comes to
mind obviously is a movie couples therapy with Waymond and Evelyn. Do you want to do that?
I would love to do that.
Okay. Let us know in the comments below if you would like us,
if you would like Jono to do movie couples therapy on Waymond and Evelyn.
Do we want, you know, just like mother daughter therapy?
Like that's a type of therapy you've done before.
Yeah, for sure.
Child therapy with Evelyn and Joy.
I could, I could even do a villain therapy for-
For Joba Tupac?
Well, and for Jamie Lee Curtis's character.
Oh my goodness. Yes.
Yeah. Anyway, we want to keep talking about this movie forever.
Let us know if you want us to, or if this was dumb and you hate us now.
Wow. Or somewhere in between, like maybe not such extreme options.
So until next time.
Be kind. Especially when we don't know what's going on.
Hey Jonathan.
Bagel.
And.